Okay, so let's practice Lambda.
And so if you go in the Lambda console
and you get one of these screens, just go into the URL
and go to slash and go to slash begin
because I really like this little UI
to show you how Lambda is working first.
It's just to show you a diagram.
So here we have the Lambda function,
and as you can see, it can be written in several languages,
for example, .NET, Java, Node.js, Python, Ruby,
or a custom runtime if you wanted to
to have other languages.
So here, let's take our Node.js and click on Run.
So it runs and says, "Hello from Lambda."
Next we click on Lambda Responds to Events.
So here the pretty cool thing is that
we have access to different sources of event triggers
that are going to trigger our Lambda function.
As you can see right now, we get streaming analytics
that's sending data into our Lambda function
and our Lambda function is saying, "Hello from Lambda."
And so if I somehow click more on all these things,
so this, the mobile phone and the camera and so on,
as you can see, my Lambda function is scaling up.
So right now only have one pair of cogs
but if I click a lot more, my Lambda is scaling up
and now I have eight or nine,
which shows that Lambda can scale seamlessly
and is very nice because, well,
you get access to scalability
without managing any kind of servers.
So Lambda can respond to events,
for example, here, streaming analytics
or your mobile phone sending data
into a mobile or IOT backend
or photos being dropped into an S3 bucket
and Lambda reacting to it in real time.
So here as we can see,
the more invocations we have, at first it's free
because we have a generous free tier,
but then if we start having a lot more events,
the invocations are going to increase faster
and then the cost is going to accumulate.
So Lambda can be a cheap service,
but, again, it's for you to estimate your workload
and see how much it would cost you.
So here are some information around what's free.
Next, let's click on Create a Function.
And so we're going to use a blueprint
and we're going to use the hello world.
So hello world, and I will choose Python.
So it could be whatever Python version you want, but Python.
And I'll call this one HelloWorld.
And now we have the execution role.
So your Lambda function
is going to be having execution role.
This is similar to the role you would set
on an EC2 instance, but this time it's for Lambda function.
So we're going to create a new role
with basic Lambda permissions,
and then this is the function code
that will be created automatically.
So let's create this function.
So my function is now created,
and as we can see, we have the code right here
that's available to us.
And so we have a function
and it's saying hey, load this function.
And then we have a handler.
This is what gets invoked when an event is passed
and say hey, we have value one equals this,
value two equals this, value three equals this,
and then we return just the first event key.
So it's not very important
for you to know code or anything like this,
just so you know that this is the code that gets executed
whenever our Lambda function is executed.
So what we can do
is that we can actually test our function right here
and we click on Test,
and as you can see, it has succeeded
and we get value1 as a result.
So the input JSON is in the bottom,
this is our hello-world template
and key1, value1, key2, value2, key3, value3
has been passed as a JSON to our Lambda function.
And our Lambda function returned this log,
and as you can see, it's successfully executed.
If I trigger a failure, for example, by removing this key,
I'm just going to remove it temporarily and then test it,
my code is going to fail
because my code does not know how to handle this exception.
This is just something that I know from the code, okay?
So I put this back in and I can test it again.
So we can save our Lambda function
and we say this is our HelloWorld
event and we save,
and now we have saved our test event,
so now we can test it as many times as we want.
So we also have the option to monitor our Lambda function.
So this is where you get invocations from CloudWatch,
we know some statistics,
so it takes a bit of time to populate,
but if you run it and wait, you'll see some stuff here
and you can click on View CloudWatch Logs.
This is where you're going to get the logs of your function.
And so if I look at my log stream one,
as we can see, we get the first time passed,
so we get the value1 equals one and so on.
And then we also get the error
that happened at some point when I triggered it.
And so this is cool because we can debug our functions
directly from the CloudWatch logs.
Okay, then we get access to come to some configuration.
So this is where you set
the general configuration of your Lambda function,
the memory, and you can set it to very large
or very small, ephemeral storage,
the timeout, so how long you want it to run
before saying it should fail,
and the execution role.
So this role, if you click on it,
is the role that allows you to access CloudWatch.
So if we look at it,
this is the basic Lambda role execution.
And if we look at what it does,
and we click on this,
as you can see, the permissions
is around the CloudWatch Logs.
And so this allows our Lambda function
to write to CloudWatch Logs.
And this is very handy
because if we wanted to also interact
with Amazon S3 and so on,
we would just go ahead and change that role
and add more permissions to that IAM role.
Okay, so let's cancel.
So this is general configuration.
As you can see, there's tons of configuration
in the Lambda world, so I don't wanna go over this,
but two things I wanna show you.
So first, permissions here.
So as you can see, the role again is here
and we get a role summary.
So we can see that CloudWatch Logs is allowed
and we have three actions allowed.
We can do it by resource or by action.
And then I wanna show you the triggers.
So currently we have no triggers, but we can add a trigger,
and this shows you all the sources of events
that can be triggering a Lambda function.
So this is a lot of them.
We have some AWS as well as some partner events,
but Amazon S3, for example,
is going to be one of the main use case,
and you have to select a bucket and event types.
But this is too much for right now.
Okay, so we have pretty much seen
how our Lambda function is working end to end.
Obviously this is something that can be explored a lot more
because this is a very complete service,
but this is good enough for an intro.
So I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.